# Publishing

Simplest way to start publishing to Hermes is sending POST request on topic endpoint::

```
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" http://hermes-frontend/topics/group.topic -d '{"message": "Hello world!"}'
```

## Creating group

As [data model](../overview/data-model.md) describes, topics are gathered into topic groups. If you don't have a group yet,
you need to create one by sending POST with `application/json` content type at

```
/groups
```

Request body must contain `groupName` field, which is the name of the group.

Sample request:

```json
{
    "groupName": "my.group"
}
```


## Creating topic

Use Hermes Management REST API to create topic by sending POST request with `application/json` content type
on topics resource:

```
/topics
```

Request body must contain at least:

* name: fully qualified name of topic including group name, separated with a dot (see: [naming convention](../overview/data-model.md#naming-convention))
* description: topic description
* contentType: format of data sent to Kafka, either ``JSON`` or ``AVRO``
* retentionTime: time to keep data in Kafka in days
* owner: who's the owner of this topic – `id` is an identifier meaningful in a given `source` implementation. 
  Default implementation is `Plaintext`, where `id` is simply a label. 

Minimal request:

```json
{
    "name": "my.group.my-topic",
    "description": "This is my topic",
    "contentType": "JSON",
    "retentionTime": {
        "duration": 1
    },
    "owner": {
        "source": "Plaintext",
        "id": "My Team"
    }
}
```

Other options:

Option               | Description                             | Options     | Default value
---------------      | --------------------------------------- | ----------- | -------------
ack                  | acknowledgement level                   | ALL, LEADER | LEADER
trackingEnabled      | track incoming messages?                | -           | false


Request that specifies all available options:

```json
{
  "name": "my.group.my-topic",
  "description": "This is my topic",
  "ack": "LEADER",
  "retentionTime": {
    "duration": 1
  },
  "trackingEnabled": false,
  "contentType": "JSON",
  "owner": {
    "source": "Plaintext",
    "id": "My Team"
  }
}
```

## Message format

Each topic has a defined content type that describes the format of data sent to Kafka.
At this point Hermes supports messages sent in `JSON` and `AVRO`.

### JSON

When topic has content type set to **JSON** it will accept messages in JSON format and they will be stored as JSON
in Kafka.

This mode is dedicated for simple use-cases and offers no validation for published messages.

### Avro

Avro is the recommended message format for topics in Hermes. It has many advantages over plain JSON, e.g.
has built-in message validation (against defined schema) and lowers the volume of data sent to Kafka.

Read detailed documentation for publishing messages in **Avro** format [here](publishing-avro.md).

## Response format

### Message Id

Response will contain special header: ``Hermes-Message-Id``. This is event UUID generated by Hermes, which can be
used to track how event flew through the system.

### Response codes

There are two possible response status codes that represent success:

* **201 Created** - event received and acknowledged by Kafka
* **202 Accepted** - event has not been acknowledged by Kafka, Hermes is buffering it and will try to deliver ASAP

Failure statuses:

* **400 Bad Message** - message did not pass validation (see docs about each data format for more)
* **404 Not Found** - topic does not exist
* **408 Request Timeout** - message was not sent to Hermes within timeout (took too much time on the network)
* **500 Internal Server Error** - something went terribly bad
* **503 Service Unavailable** - node is in shutdown mode

## Acknowledgment level

Each topic can define level of acknowledgement (ACK):

* leader ACK - only one Kafka node (leader) needs to acknowledge reception of message
* all ACK - at least [min.insync.replicas](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#brokerconfigs_min.insync.replicas) nodes must acknowledge reception of message

ACK configuration has the following consequences:

- with `ACK leader` message writes are replicated asynchronously, thus the acknowledgment latency will be low. However, message write may be lost 
when there is a topic leadership change - e.g. due to rebalance or broker restart.
- with `ACK all` messages writes are synchronously replicated to replicas. Write acknowledgement latency will be much higher than with leader ACK,
it will also have higher variance due to tail latency. However, messages will be persisted as long as the whole replica set does not go down simultaneously. 

Publishers are advised to select topic ACK level based on their latency and durability requirements. 

Hermes also provides a feature called Buffering (described in paragraphs below) which provides consistent write latency 
despite long Kafka response times. Note that, however, this mode may decrease message durability for `ACK all` setting.

## Buffering [deprecated]

Hermes administrator can set maximum time, for which Hermes will wait for Kafka acknowledgment. By default, it is set to
65ms. After that time, **202** response is sent to client. Event is kept in Kafka producer buffer and it's delivery will
be retried until successful.

This makes Hermes resilient to any Kafka malfunctions or hiccups, and we are able to guarantee maximum response
time to clients. Also in case of Kafka cluster failure, Hermes is able to receive incoming events and send them when
Kafka is back online.

### Buffer persistence

By default, events are buffered in memory only. This raises the question about what happens in case of Hermes node failure
(or force kill of process). Hermes Frontend API exposes callbacks that can be used to implement persistence model of
buffered events.

Default implementation uses [OpenHFT ChronicleMap](https://github.com/OpenHFT/Chronicle-Map) to persist unsent messages
to disk. Map structure is continuously persisted to disk, as it is stored in offheap memory as
[memory mapped file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memory-mapped_file).

Using buffering with ACK all setting means that durability of events may be lowered when **202** status code is received. If Hermes instance
is killed before message is spilled to disk or the data on disk becomes corrupted, the message is gone. Thus `ACK all` with **202** status code
is similar to `ACK leader` because a single node failure could cause the message be lost.

### Deprecation notice
The buffering mechanism in Hermes is considered deprecated and is set to be removed in the future.

## Remote DC fallback

Hermes supports a remote datacenter fallback mechanism for [multi datacenter deployments](https://hermes-pubsub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration/kafka-and-zookeeper/#multiple-kafka-and-zookeeper-clusters).

Fallback is configured on per topic basis, using a `fallbackToRemoteDatacenterEnabled` property:

```http request
PUT /topics/my.group.my-topic

{
  "fallbackToRemoteDatacenterEnabled": true,
}
```

Using this setting automatically disables buffering mechanism for a topic.

When using this setting for a topic, Hermes will try to send a message to a local datacenter Kafka first and will fall back to remote datacenter Kafka 
if the local send fails. 

Hermes also provides a speculative fallback mechanism which will send messages to remote Kafka if the local Kafka is not responding in a timely manner. 
Speculative send is performed after `frontend.kafka.fail-fast-producer.speculativeSendDelay` elapses.

When using remote DC fallback, Hermes attempts to send a message to Kafka for the duration of `frontend.handlers.maxPublishRequestDuration` property. If after
`maxPublishRequestDuration` Hermes has not received an acknowledgment from Kafka, it will respond with **500** status code to the client.

Table below summarizes remote fallback configuration options:

| Option                                                 | Scope  | Default value |
|--------------------------------------------------------|--------|---------------|
| fallbackToRemoteDatacenterEnabled                      | topic  | false         |
| frontend.kafka.fail-fast-producer.speculativeSendDelay | global | 250ms         |
| frontend.handlers.maxPublishRequestDuration            | global | 500ms         |

## Partition assignment
`Partition-Key` header can be used by publishers to specify Kafka `key` which will be used for partition assignment for a message. This will ensure 
that all messages with given `Partition-Key` will be sent to the same Kafka partition. 
